**** Data Science and Marketing

>> marketing data science is a relatively new field and the amount
   of resources available for education and references lags behind the
   momentum although the data is increasing substantially. 
   There a lot of use cases of DS in marketing this book cover the most common
   
---Trends in marketing 
        (The applications of data science in marketing range from building insightful
        reports and dashboards to utilizing complicated machine learning algorithms
        to predict customer behaviors or engage customers with the products and
        contents)

        >>Rising importance of digital marketing

         >>Marketing analytics:                > Marketing analytics is a way of monitoring and
                                                 analyzing the performances of marketing efforts
                                               >. In e-commerce businesses, you can
                                                analyze and visualize the different types and segments of customers and
                                                which type of customers drives the revenue for your business the most
                                                with marketing analytics
                                               >In media businesses, with marketing
                                                analytics, you can analyze which content attracts the users the most and
                                                what the trends in keyword searches are
                                               >Marketing analytics also helps
                                                you to understand the cost-effectiveness of your marketing campaigns.
                                                By looking into the return on investment (ROI), you can further
                                                optimize your future marketing campaigns (ROI VS CPA)

        >>Personalized and target marketing: > individual-level (personalized) target marketing.
                                             > utilizing ML algorithms to learn from the
                                                user history data and apply specialized marketing
                                                strategies to small subgroups 
                                                which results in dec CPA and inc ROI
                                              >In retail businesses, ML is used to predict which customers are more
                                                likely to purchase  which items Using these predictions, to customize accordingly
                                                the marketing messages to customers
                                               > Many retail and media businesses use target marketing to drive higher engagement
                                                 to yield higher ROI

---Applications of data science in marketing

   --Descriptive versus explanatory versus predictive analyses
                                              
                                               >Descriptive analysis: This is conducted to understand and describe the
                                                given dataset better. The purpose of this analysis is to quantitatively
                                                and statistically summarize the information that the data contains. For
                                                example, if you are conducting a descriptive analysis on user purchase
                                                history data, you will be answering such questions as What is the best
                                                selling item? What were the monthly sales like in the past year? 
                                                
                                                >Explanatory analysis: When the purpose of descriptive analysis is to
                                                answer the what and how from the data, explanatory analysis is to
                                                answer why using the data. This type of analysis is typically conducted
                                                when you have a specific question that you want to answer. As an
                                                example for e-commerce businesses, if you want to analyze what
                                                drives your users to make purchases?
                                                
                                                >Predictive analysis: This analysis is conducted when there is a
                                                specific future event that you would like to predict. The purpose of this
                                                analysis is to build machine learning models that learn from the
                                                historical data and make predictions about events that will happen in
                                                the future. Similar to the previous examples of e-commerce and
                                                purchase history data, one of the questions you can answer from this
                                                type of analysis may be, Which user is the most likely to make a
                                                purchase within the next seven days?
                                                
                                               
                                             

  --Types of learning algorithms
                                              >Supervised learning algorithms: These algorithms are used when the
                                                prediction target or outcome is known. For example, if we want to use
                                                machine learning to predict who will make purchases in the next few
                                                days, then we will use supervised learning algorithms. Here, the
                                                prediction target or outcome is whether this person made a purchase
                                                within the given time window or not. Based on the historical purchase
                                                data, we will need to build features, which describe each data point,
                                                such as a user's age, address, last purchase date, and then supervised
                                                learning algorithms will learn from this data how to map these features
                                                to the prediction target or outcome
                                                
                                               > Unsupervised learning algorithms: Unlike supervised learning
                                                algorithms, unsupervised learning algorithms are used when we do not
                                                have a specific prediction target or outcome. This type of machine
                                                learning algorithm is frequently used in clustering and
                                                recommendation systems. As an example, you can use unsupervised
                                                learning algorithms to cluster your customer base into different
                                                subgroups or segments, based on their behaviors. In this case, we do
                                                not have a specific target or outcome that we want to predict. We are
                                                just grouping similar customers together into different segments.
                                                
                                                >Reinforcement learning algorithms: These algorithms are used when
                                                we want the model to continuously learn and train itself without prior
                                                knowledge or experience. In the case of reinforcement learning, the
                                                model learns how to make predictions after lots of trials and errors.
                                                One example of the application of reinforcement learning in marketing
                                                is when there are multiple marketing strategies you'd like to test and
                                                choose the one that works the best. In this case, you can run a
                                                reinforcement learning algorithm, where it randomly picks one
                                                strategy at a time and gets rewarded when a positive outcome occurs.
                                                After multiple iterations of trials and errors, the reinforcement learning
                                                model will have learned to choose the best marketing strategy, based
                                                on the total rewards each marketing strategies have earned.
    
   --Data science workflow

                                               >1. Problem definition: 
                                                    (descriptive versus explanatory versus predictive) 
                                                    (supervised versus unsupervised versus
                                                    reinforcement learning) 
                                               
                                                 >2.Data collection:
                                                  (third-party vendors, scrape,publicly available data. In some cases,internal systems) 
                                                  (can be trivial or it can also be tedious)
                                               
                                                >3.Data preparation:  
                                                 (transofrm and unify data formats, set proper straucture, tabulate the data)
                                                 
                                                >4. Data analysis: When you are done with the data preparation step, then
                                                    you will have to start looking into the data. In the data analysis step,
                                                    typically, descriptive analyses are conducted to compute some
                                                    descriptive summary statistics and build visual plots to better
                                                    understand the data. Quite often, you can find some recognizable
                                                    patterns and draw some insight from data during this step. You may
                                                    also be able to find any anomalies in the data, such as missing values,
                                                    corrupted data, or duplicate records, from this step.
                                                 
                                                 >5.Feature engineering: Feature engineering is the most important part
                                                    of data science and machine learning, as it directly affects the
                                                    performance of predictive models. Feature engineering requires
                                                    expertise and good domain knowledge of the data, as it requires you to
                                                    transform the raw data into more informative data for your algorithms
                                                    to learn from. One good example of feature engineering is
                                                    transforming text data into numerical data. As the machine learning
                                                    algorithms can only learn from numerical data, you will need to come
                                                    up with an idea and strategy to translate textual data into numerical
                                                    data. As we work through this book and as we build machine learning
                                                    models, we will discuss and experiment with various feature
                                                    engineering techniques.
                                                  
                                                  >6. Model building: Once you are done with the feature engineering step,
                                                    then you can start training and testing your machine learning models.
                                                    In this step, you can experiment with various learning algorithms to
                                                    figure out which one works the best for your use case. One thing to
                                                    keep in mind in this step is the validation metrics. It is important to
                                                    have a good measure of your model performance, as machine learning
                                                    algorithms will try to optimize on the given performance measure. As
                                                    we start building machine learning models in the following chapters,
                                                    we will discuss more in detail regarding what metrics to use depending
                                                    on the type of problems that we are working on.
                                                    
                                                  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Follow in the notebook where we implement A simple logistic regression model in Python

Logistic regression is an example of supervised learning. 
It is used to calculate or predict the probability of a binary (yes/no) event occurring 


Summary

In this chapter, we discussed the overall trends in marketing and learned the
rising importance of data science and machine learning in the marketing
industry. As the amount of data increases and as we observe the benefits of
utilizing data science and machine learning for marketing, companies of all
sizes are investing in building more data-driven and quantitative marketing
strategies.
We also learned different types of analysis methods, especially the three
types of analysis that we will be using frequently in this book—descriptive,
explanatory, and predictive —and different use cases of these analyses. In
this chapter, we covered different types of machine learning algorithms, as
well as the typical workflow in data science. Lastly, we spent some time
setting up our development environments in Python and R and testing our
environment setup by building a simple logistic regression model.
In the next chapter, we are going to go over some of the key performance
indicators (KPIs) and how to visualize these key metrics. We will learn
how to compute and build visual plots of these KPIs in Python, using
different packages, such as pandas, numpy, and matplotlib. For those of you who
are following the exercises in this book using the R language, we will also
discuss how to use R to compute and plot these KPIs in R, using various
statistical and mathematical functions in R and the ggplot2 package for
visualizations.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                