*Section 2: Descriptive Versus Explanatory Analysis*

     - Will learn KPIS in Marketing and ML to understand 
       what drives the successes and failures of marketing campaigns. 

     - Chapter 2, Key Performance Indicators and Visualizations
     - Chapter 3, Drivers behind Marketing Engagement
     - Chapter 4, From Engagement to Conversion
            
            
     **Chapter 2: Key Performance Indicators and Visualizations
                  {sales revenue,(CPA),ROI)
                  digital marketing KPIs, and site traffic }
                  ***sales revenue:
                     - attribute sales to each of your marketing efforts
                        (TV, ads, social media, natural sales)
                     - To diffrentiate you have to put rules such as 
                        using different URLs 
                     - Sales can be reported in a timeseries form plotted 
                       against appropriate unit of time likely months
                  ** CPA:
                       (cost to acquire a customer through  marketing effort)
                       (The quality of customers acquired through highly-targeted 
                        marketing campaigns is better)
                  **Digital marketing KPIs
                       >> Click-through rate (CTR) = No. of Clicks/ No. of views
                       >> Lead ratio (MQL: Marketing Qualified Leads, who are the leads that are ready to be marketed to
                                           and meet business-specific criteria to become customers who are likely
                                           to make purchases, based on their characteristics)
                       >>conversion rate: 
                                (percentage of leads that are converted into active customers)
                                 Conversion rate = No. of paying Customers/ Number of leads
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Summary
In this chapter, we have discussed how to use descriptive analysis for
reporting and analytics on the progress and performances of marketing
efforts. We have discussed various KPIs that are often used in marketing to
track the progress of marketing campaigns. We have learned how important
it is to look at how much sales revenue each marketing strategy
generates. When analyzing the sales revenue metrics, we have seen that it is
important to approach it from different angles. You might want to look at
not only the aggregate sales revenue, but also time-series (monthly,
quarterly, or yearly) sales revenue. You might also want to look at sales
attributed to each individual marketing campaigns and how much revenue
each campaign generated for your company. We have also discussed
CPA metrics, with which you can tell the cost-effectiveness of your
marketing strategies. We have learned various metrics to analyze for digital
marketing channels as well, such as CTR, lead ratio, and conversion rates.
As we have seen and experimented in the Python and R exercises, we can
go multiple levels deeper into these KPI metrics.
In the next chapter, we are going to learn how we can apply data science
and machine learning techniques for explanatory analysis. More
specifically, we will discuss how we can use regression analysis and models
to understand the drivers behind marketing engagement. We will also cover
how we can interpret the regression analysis results in the following
chapter.
                               
                                         



                          
                   
                
    
            
                 
                 
                 